so I was envisioning that I was gonna be
like super like clear-headed and stuff
when I explained this next part so I'll
ask y'all's forgiveness in terms of if
it's not clearer seems a little bit
discombobulated so sorry about that so
hopefully this will make sense to people
if it doesn't I'll do the Dharma talk
again and like be in a better frame of
mind because I sort of sketch out rough
notes but I don't have like a prepared
thing that I read so it involves a lot
of ad-lib kind of stuff the second thing
is that twitch chat is actually like
really good at this now so I've been
watching and I'm amazed by how well you
guys understand the things that I think
in my head and so like what I want y'all
to do so first of all you know when you
run across a cognitive bias and you see
it in someone it's like so easy to see
right and that's because I mean I've
noticed that some of you guys like
sometimes I'll ask people questions into
a chat about like you know what they
think is going on and predominantly like
people are correct in terms of
recognizing ego recognizing stuff like
recognizing like cognitive biases and so
you guys are actually really good at
this so that is awesome
and y'all should continue to pay
attention and ultimately apply the stuff
to yourself so try to like see the
things that you see in LS and like look
for it in your own life so not
necessarily his specifics but I'll give
you guys a couple of examples so one is
like we talked about fear and in his
case you know we think that living a
life based on fear is a bad thing but in
his case we can see how it's adaptive in
an important survival mechanism and so
there going to be some things that you
do that are going to be like bad for you
but that you learn how to do because
that was the only way you could deal
with it at a particular time so what is
the behavior or the thought process that
you have about yourself that used to
work and is now not or
so well there are other things that we
could you know think about in terms of
like what are the emotions that you feel
like whenever you have an impulse to do
something here's another like general
good one when you have an impulse to do
something or especially an impulse to
like say something and you restrain that
impulse what do you feel because that's
gonna tell you like a lot about your
natural inclination inclinations and
what you're drawn towards and you can
grow a lot by restraining your natural
impulse like it was torturous like he
couldn't even close his eyes like it's
so hard for him to restrain that like
whatever that the strength of his mind
is and it's amazing that he was able to
do it because it's like so hard to close
your eyes like you'd think that that
would be easy but he's able to do it and
that's where the progress is so find the
inclination within yourself and then see
what happens when you restrain it or you
don't restrain it and like you can learn
a lot about yourself that way okay okay
so let's do time' okay so this actually
relates to some of the stuff that ls
said about what was it a plateau
syndrome I keep on forgetting what he
called it pretty cool but summit
syndrome there we go so and the reason
it relates to this is because you were
talking about something that we're
talking about feeling empty in spite of
accomplishment so Dharma is like a great
way to do to no longer feel empty in
life there are a couple of other
questions like that people have asked
about you know depression and stuff like
that so I think Dharma is important so
let me just start from the top
so Parma is the Sanskrit word for duty
or responsibility and sort of in in in
the East it's not so much about right or
wrong in terms of like an absolute
morality the idea is that you should do
Honma or you know a sin quote-unquote is
to like not do your Dharma but what does
that mean like what does it mean to do
your autonomous so the first thing that
I want to point out is that a lot of
people want to make changes in their
life and it's difficult to make changes
and there are all kinds of reasons that
people come up with they like they start
really intellectualizing and coming up
with like oh I'm lazy or the super
complicated thing happened and that
prevents me from progressing or like
this happened and that's why this didn't
happen or I blame myself or I blame
other people your mind comes up with all
kinds of reasons why progress growth are
moving forward is hard and the first
thing to understand is that people
conceive of progress growth and moving
forward as good things so in our mind we
all want progress growth or
accomplishment right like we think about
moving forward and putting together our
lives and we think about that as a
positive thing and I know it sounds kind
of bizarre because clearly it's a
positive thing like don't we all want to
progress and grow but what I want you
guys to understand is that actually
moving forward or growing doesn't feel
like a good thing so like in your brain
and your experience of progress and
growth is actually like bad difficult or
painful it doesn't feel good like
growing and progressing in life is like
hard and crappy and usually like
uncomfortable or shitty in some way so
just think about you know if you're
unemployed and you want a career that's
not gonna be fun like you want a career
and like if you have a career is like
you know like let's say you are at
developer or something and at some point
you're making like you know hundreds of
thousands of dollars like that's cool
like that's progress or growth and so we
kind of associate that with positive
feelings but the first thing that you
guys have to understand is that like the
process of growing is gonna be
fundamentally difficult or painful if
it's not I mean doesn't always have to
be it can be wonderful in a lot of ways
too
but in your mind you associate most
people associate progress or growth with
good things but in reality it is a
difficult thing to do
so the way to think about this speaking
of kind of summit syndrome is we think
about summiting the mountain
and that summiting is like a good thing
but climbing the mountain is effort in
pain with minimal reward so summiting is
where you get your award but your
process is difficult and painful and so
most of the time if we think about what
the mind is actually doing there if you
focus on progress or NGO growth you're
not thinking about the process you're
thinking about the end your focus is on
the reward not the climbing and so your
expectation of growth or progress
becomes associated with positivity
primarily because we think of rewards as
good and then your experience is
actually very different from your
expectations so I think about how
awesome it is to reach the top
then like if I start to climb and I'm
thinking about the awesomeness at the
top like it's gonna be different from
sort of what I'm envisioning so a lot of
times what happens when when especially
gamers try to move forward in life is it
turns out to be not nearly as sexy as
they imagined and then they this leads
to a loss of will to move forward
because you're shooting for something
good you're hoping for independence
you're hoping for you know to put
together your life and you're hoping for
everything to be like fixed but the
actual experience looks nothing like
that and you don't even know if this
experience is gonna lead you to the end
result like if you see the top of the
mountain I say there's a thousand stairs
that you can climb and you'll get to the
top of the mountain if you can see point
a and you can see point Z I mean you go
from point A to point Z you can
sometimes tolerate the discomfort of
climbing for the purpose of reaching the
top but when it comes to a satisfying
career and if you're unemployed you have
no idea whether working at the call
centre is actually gonna lead you to the
goal that you want so you this leads to
a loss of will to move forward because
all you see is the suffering and you're
not even sure if that that is ever gonna
read lead to progress and so if you're
choosing to put your life together for
like good reasons but experience bad
things then you're gonna stop putting
your life together
because it's not what you are looking
for does that make sense
you guys following me
okay good because I wasn't sure if that
made any sense when I sat down and wrote
it down okay so the goal is to be able
to choose to discover a way where you
can choose the pain and the suffering
and you can accept it for what it is
without another reason that you can just
like step in front of and embrace the
crappiness of life because this is
important to understand what holds you
back in life is because life is crappy
and you don't want to play that game you
want to play the game that's fun you
don't want to play it pay the game
that's crappy that's just how we operate
it's how all human beings often operate
so what that means is that if you have a
nebulous goal and you have a short term
that sucks you're just not going to do
it so if there's a way that you can
choose the crappy road that you can face
it embrace it and move through it to not
expect a positive thing but to actually
embrace the negativity of life then
you're you're in complete control of
your life because then the crappiness
doesn't have to hold you back and you
don't need a guarantee of a particular
future to keep you moving forward like
this is a terrible way to live life if
you're living life based on guarantees
in the future which is what a lot of
people do then they're willing to
withstand punishment today or they just
avoid punishment entirely then you're
only gonna live a life of like gaming
like that's what happens right you just
because you don't want to work at a call
center you don't want to like bag
groceries you don't want to do you don't
want to make a resume because that's
boring and it you don't even know if
it's gonna accomplish anything and
gamers would rather sways their time on
nothing then waste their time on
something that may not work which is
another like really bizarre cognitive
bias but just think about that for a
second you would rather not do a resume
at all rather than like spend time on a
resume if it may not get you the job
that you want
but like that's really bizarre it's like
bizarre thinking but that's how it works
so that's fine
so let's accept it let's first
understand what we are and accept where
we are and don't blame ourselves for
being this way and let's see if there's
some way that we can move forward
because there is okay so I got you guys
I got you okay so this is what
autonomous
Dharma is the ability to choose tolerate
and even welcome both the good and the
bad Dharma is the way the thing that
allows us to face adversity to accept
adversity to choose adversity so here's
the traditional example that I use about
Dharma so let's say someone points a gun
at me so the gun means all kinds of
things right so like memes and and you
know terrible jokes about school
shootings and stuff aside like the gun
is like just let's just in this isolated
world the gun just means pain suffering
death right this is like a bad thing
like being like someone pointing a gun
at you is a bad thing I have no doubt
that if someone actually did this I
would be devastated and frightened and
all that kind of good stuff
so our instinctive reaction is to turn
away from the gun or retreat from the
gun or whatever if you want to be a hero
and you're Superman or whatever you can
fight against the gun but generally
speaking like my point is that when
someone
engages you with like a bad situation
your tendency is to retreat from it and
it's completely reasonable so then let's
use an alternate example let's say
someone points a gun at my kid then what
do I do
right so the gun doesn't mean anything
less the situation hasn't changed I mean
the situation has changed drastically
but like the meaning of gun is if
anything more severe than it was before
it still means pain it still means death
it even means death or danger to
something that I care about more than
myself so how do I respond to the gun
suddenly instead of stepping away from
it I'm moving into its path between me
and my kid so let's just think about
that for a second okay so what this
means is that like this thing which is
negative and painful and that I want to
avoid at all costs I choose to step in
front of that is Dharma and why doesn't
is not confusing right like everyone
understands why I'm doing it because my
kid is involved and because my I have a
Dharma to my child to protect them so I
step into the path of the gun but if we
tunnel down into this what we see is
that Varma is the thing that allows you
to face the negativity in life face the
adversity in life face pain in life and
actually even choose pain or adversity
in life so I'll give you guys a kind of
a quick story okay so you guys like
stories oh wow there's another type
train going on and people are yeah thank
you to everyone who's subscribing so
okay so okay so
a couple thousand years ago I'm gonna
tell story from the maja part then and
the Pug glad to keep that for those of
y'all who don't know okay so a couple
thousand years ago there was there was a
civil war going on in India between two
groups of people the bond ava's and the
goat of us so I'm gonna give you guys
some backstory okay let me just think
about where to start okay so there's two
sets of there's just so many stories
that are all like inter woman okay so
let's start a couple generations back
okay so there is a king who's married
and is having trouble having children
and he's got two wives so what they do
is they call the sage like they call
like a yogi and they say hey can you
come help us have children because we're
unable to have children
and so the the sage comes over and he
says yeah I'm happy to help you have
children so this is where things get a
little bit weird so there's some kind of
ritual or whatever and then literally
the way the story is is that the sage is
like in a room and he calls one of the
Kings wives in and then he like bestows
upon her divine he bestows upon her his
like divine radiance right so unclear
what that means and you know it's just a
weird story so I don't I don't really
know what that means but and then she's
so like taken aback by it it's so
overwhelming for her that she closes her
eyes and then like leaves the room and
then the second wife comes in and the
sage bestows upon her his divine
radiance and then she becomes physically
ill and leaves the room and then later a
maid enters the room and she's able to
withstand like the full force of His
divine radiance and so she doesn't look
away and she doesn't get sick and then
she leaves the room and so lo and behold
all three women get pregnant okay
so unclear we're not gonna comment on
what divine radiance is code for because
I don't just it's not important for the
story
but what is important for the story is
when the first wife gives birth since
she looked away her son is blind the
second wife when she gives birth she was
sickly so her son is sickly and then the
third person who's the the maid actually
since she sort of accepted the sages
gift is actually like completely fine so
delivers like a healthy boy okay
so I know you guys are just gonna walk
okay so but let's just stop and think
about this so then the King has a has a
choice right so he has his eldest son
who's blind he has a second son who's
sickly and he has his third not really
his son but The Maids kid who's sort of
like hale and hearty so two of the sons
are of noble birth but the eldest is
blind second was sickly third one is
like born of like common stock so who
inherits the throne what do you guys
think okay so we're getting a lot of
suffer blind third kid or blind kid okay
so great so turns out it's the second
son so if the King says is that I King
can really can't be blind because the
King has to lead his troops in combat
and etc so like I can't actually like
have my my eldest son in here at the
throne who should inherit the throne
because it was sort of like eldest son
kind of you know rules and then he also
decides that you know while the second
son is sickly like he he's not like
common stock so he's gonna go and herd
the throne okay so yeah that's a great
guiles theme goes with everything we
have to watch that later but yeah so
it's kind of like I get that I'm not
giving you guys like a very decent
promise to answer these questions it's
just I it's just weird
right so most of the questions that I'm
gonna ask I have answers that make no
sense so sorry about that yeah so bond
dues right so the eldest son his name is
Drew
okay so we've got a hype train going
yeah
so the eldest son is the rash he's the
blind he's the blind son the second son
his name is Pandu and the third son's
name is Vidor so the rest gets passed
over for the throne Pandu inherits the
throne and then over time both through
thrashed and Pandu get married and they
have children and so Ponder's kids are
called the pandavas and drew thrashed
kids are called the Kauravas
okay yeah so just remember that there's
a blind king who's the eldest son who
got passed over and he has kids and then
the second son inherits and he has kids
so who inherits the throne next after
Pandu
to many names
okay so the eldest son of the second
king I mean the the the sick King King
right
so the Pandavas are gonna inherit the
throne but then what happens is the
Kauravas are jealous because the eldest
of the Kauravas is this guy named er er
done and he says well my can't my father
should have been king but he got passed
over so I should have been king and so
it's not fair that I'm not king
yeah too many names okay so I'll file
that away for future okay so so then
he's kind of jealous and then what he
does so that the the I don't know how to
do this without names okay so there's
I'm gonna have to do like oh I know what
I can do here here here I have an idea
okay let's do this way all right so
let's do this okay here we go okay let's
do this you see this fancy thing okay so
there is okay that's way too small okay
bon dieu okay okay and then he so then
then what happens is borio ton is
jealous and says I deserve the epic loot
of and walls need so fondues son is a
guy named you dish there and he is the
rightful inheritor so he actually gets
to role need and the guild leader makes
Duryodhana choose great
got it does that make sense we doing
okay now okay and so then what happens
Duryodhana is pissed
we good okay the guild leader is Bhishma
do you guys remember we talked about
Bheeshma
the boat King story
okay send Duryodhana then invites
yuddhistir to gamble okay so this guy
says hey let's gamble invites this theer
to gamble so he says let's roll for it
buddy and so they they gamble and then
yudhisthira loses a lot of stuff and
then eventually the REO then says well
why don't you bet the kingdom man
and then Duryodhan Yudhisthira says well
I shouldn't bet the kingdom but okay cuz
he doesn't know how to say no because
he's addicted and then there's this guy
named Krishna and Krishna has sort of
believed to be divine question God
questions super shady dude okay and then
Krishna says instead of betting the
kingdom why don't you do this these are
the conditions of the bet if you lose
Duryodhana gets to run the kingdom for
13 years and the bond of Oz ie fondues
kids called okay so okay so you dish
there is the head of the bond of us okay
this is his guilt so the bond of us have
to go into hiding for 13 years and
Duryodhana gets to run the rule the
kingdom if at any point over those 13
years Duryodhana finds the Pandavas as
in he gets vision of them the counter
resets but if the bond of us can hide
for 13 years I know sorry a smaller text
okay let's do this
okay so will will have to all have to
redo this later but okay so he says that
you have to you have to hide for 13
years and if you're unable to if you
don't get found then the bond of was
returned and then the rear then handle
hands over the kingdom okay so then next
so 13 years go by Duryodhana tries to
find the Pandavas and he fails
okay and then what happens is the pond
of us come back and the pond of us say
can I has my kingdom back please
and what do you guys think theory that
says
the rear then says [ __ ] off and then
yudishtir says okay that's fair
you guys deserve to be kings to your
daddy was eldest but was blind monk s
tech w so how about we do have these so
you guys take half the kingdom and we'll
take half the kingdom because we're both
cousins and your dad is a king and my
dad is a king so how about we do have
these dira then says what
what is the reason say
there you're done says [ __ ] off
you new loot is mine new tech w okay and
then you this sure says okay fine even
if you want the kingdom
we are Nobles to and it is our Dharma to
rule so give us five villages one for
each brother that we can rule over one
village each and like at least we don't
have to be like peasants like that's all
we want is like five villages one for
each of us and then three or then says
[ __ ] off new tech w GTFO copter okay so
he was basically like the first mobile
player where he's just completely
unreasonable and and then you there's
like kind of bummed out and then krishna
goes to the pond of us and says okay now
you guys have to fight you can't accept
this because it's fine to share your
kingdom it's fine to even give up most
of the kingdom but not ruling is not
doing your autonomous so you have to
fight and so then a couple sometime
later yes so you guys I'm gonna be
dropping other boomer bombs on y'all
over time like roflcopter so then on the
eve of battle there's a guy named our
June so there are five brothers okay so
you dish there's the oldest you guys
ready for names beam is the second
origin is the next one and then not cool
and Sahadev these are the five brothers
and this guy is the best warrior he's
the best
and then Krishna who remember is
questioned God questioned divine whatevs
kind of shady is actually Arjuna's
charioteer so there's this this story
about so on the eve of battle
Arjuna's gonna go fight and Krishna says
charioteer and Arjun says actually I
don't want to fight I don't think it's
worth it I don't think it's worth it
like I don't want to kill people for the
sake of like property like I just don't
want to fight because on the other side
so there's a civil war going on so there
are people that he grew up with and
people that he cares about including his
teacher whom he loves a great deal who
decides that they want to and he just
says I don't wanna fight and so Argent's
I mean Krishna says you have to fight
and here's why and their conversation is
psychotherapy 1.0 also known as the hug
he thought okay so that's like the first
instance of psychotherapy and what he
basically tells them is that you you've
got a fight because it's your Dharma and
that even if you suffer or you get hurt
or you hurt people that you love that's
worth it because you have to do your
Dharma so that's what karma is kind of
like a weird story I know this is not
the most exciting story but it's gonna
set a background because you guys have
to understand this stuff to get to the
real stories okay so basically what he
tells Arjuna is that like even if you
don't want to fight you've got a fight
because your cause is just and when your
cause is just and it's your turn about
you have to do it you can't say no like
you can't you can't bow out you can't
uncute you can't log off
you can't DC you've got to do it and so
what we're gonna be talking about today
is Dharma because if you can discover
your Dharma then you're able to do all
of the negative things okay so this is
where
yeah so this is how you do that and
that's something called Dharma so then
the question becomes so Dharma means
duty or responsibility okay I'm gonna
just actually check with chat any
questions so far about this I know that
like it wasn't the best story okay a lot
of questions okay okay good so we're
gonna keep going so I want you guys so
now we're gonna talk about science real
quick because if you guys want to change
your behavior Dharma is the way to do it
and in the world of addiction there have
been studies done that show that people
who are like people who succeed at
overcoming their addictions or ones that
essentially find something actually I'm
not gonna talk about that yet I'm gonna
ask you guys so back when I was in
medical school I had a patient who
smoked and I would ask the patient I
would say hey like you should stop
smoking because you know it's bad for
you and he says yeah hi doc I really
want to I really want to stop smoking
and then so I being you know the the
clever little medical student first of
all pointed out that I was not actually
a full doctor yet and then I said well
yeah I think you should stop smoking
because you know if you don't smoke
you're gonna get lung cancer and it's
gonna be really bad and you can get
emphysema and COPD and I told them all
the reasons that it's it's not a good
idea to smoke because all that is bad
right and we don't want bad stuff right
twitch at we don't want bad things so
what do you think happened did he quit
didn't quit so comes back a few weeks
later and I asked him yes s [ __ ] off I
asked him so how's how's the has the not
quitting smoking going and he says well
it's it's tough doc I I haven't been
able to stop you know and so then I said
okay so no big deal so there are
medications that we can give you and you
can use nicorette gum and chantix and
things like that that tell them like
it's really important that you quit
smoking because you know if you don't
get some if you don't quit not only is
there emphysema and stuff like that
there's also other worse things like
heart disease and strokes you can have a
heart attack you can have a stroke and
here's some medications and then go and
then quit and he says yeah doc I'm thank
you so much I'm really gonna quit and
then
did it work what do you guys think did
he quit smoking
nope so here's the question chat what do
I have to talk to the guy about or what
do I tell him to get him to quit smoking
how do we create a change
okay yes then I say okay dude he comes
in the next time gonna say you got to
quit because it's your Dharma and then
he says what and then I tell him that
story and he gets lost in all the Indian
names and doesn't understand and then
doesn't quit smoking so
you
okay right so now we're getting
somewhere right so a lot of twitch chat
is okay amongst all the CAC w's and
memes and so then so people are saying
family right so the guys older he has he
has a kid and then I start asking him
questions okay do you ever want to see
your daughter go to college do you ever
want to see her get married do you want
to ever meet your grandkids
and then
right so then he goes full feelsbadman
and then he actually quits so like how
does that work
right so I gave him lots of information
like he wants to quit it's bad it's bad
he doesn't like it he doesn't want to be
and so here's the question here's the
real question that I asked him you guys
ready for it
this is where I learned so you guys know
that sometimes I say things that are
kind of like me and dickish on twitch
it's not because I'm trying to be mean
or dick alright this is the question you
guys ready for it when you walk your
daughter down the aisle do you want to
be wheeling an oxygen tank behind you
that's the question
right that's when and then and so that
was like before I you know knew how to
be a psychiatrist so I was still
learning how to do those things but and
he gave me such a look of abject horror
her but then we started talking more but
that's it right so so what is that like
what is that that's thermal but what
does that mean so in science we call it
a competing interest so information so
if you look at studies on addiction we
see that people who are able to quit
addictions and let's just think about
what an addiction so an addiction is
like something that makes you feel
really good and in the case of something
like nicotine or alcohol actually has
circuits in your brain that are telling
you like hey smoke this cigarette you
dumbass
smoke it now smoke it again and like
same thing with alcohol like you can
literally die if you're if you're
addicted to alcohol and you stop
drinking cold turkey there's a chance
that you will have like seizures and can
have like life-threatening like you
could die from alcohol withdrawal it's a
potentially lethal condition it's
dangerous and so that as your body goes
into withdrawal there are powerful
powerful things telling you to drink so
it's not just psychological it's not
just like the weak level stuff that
we're talking about when we talk about
video game addiction and building your
life and finding purpose like that's
like low level stuff that's like news
it's like it's like the noob tutorial
island before you go to the real place
and then you deal with like
quote-unquote real addiction switch
which is like the physiologic addictions
which have much more powerful drivers
and so how do you overcome those and you
have to have something called a
competing interest you have to have
something that lets that makes you
choose embrace the difficulty of the
road that you're gonna walk it has to be
like you have to do it for the right
reason you have to have purpose value
okay it can't be it can't just be like
an arbitrary goal like no one wants lung
cancer it has to be something that you
care about so now
so that's like basically Sciences like
version of autonomous so it from
spirituality we call it Dharma and from
science we call it a competing interest
so competing interest is crucial to
accept pain because the problem is that
like you need to pick a path that has
pain that's the goal is to pick a path
of pain and how do you do that you say
it five times fast pick a path pain pick
a path pain pick a path it so how do you
pick that you find a competing interests
or Dharma so then the next natural
question becomes well how do you find
your Dharma so this is where we're gonna
get to sort of the crux of what we're
talking about today so the first is that
if you can find your Dharma and you can
live in service to your Dharma then you
can accomplish all kinds of stuff so
like for example when I talk to people
who are unemployed and put their lives
back together sometimes it's because
they like meet someone or they get
someone pregnant and they're like oh
[ __ ] I have to grow up and if they grow
up like they don't they can't just like
keep screwing around and they find that
that's like their Dharma and then
they're able to put their lives together
so the question is you have multiple
autonomous so the question is how do you
go about finding your Dharma and this is
where we kind of get to the crux of
what's applicable and that is that most
people try to base their goals on
desires not on values and Dharma is
about living a life of values not
desires so the question is what is the
difference between a value and a desire
what do you guys think
you
[Music]
okay
you
okay this is great so someone said wants
and needs external and internal value is
permanent and internal so this is why I
love doing this right because all of you
guys are wrong and none of that helps
anyone I mean sorry all of you guys are
right sorry and none of that helps
anyone so like we can talk about values
and desires and it doesn't help anyone
like okay so you guys say like okay it's
internal I completely agree higher
purpose completely agree desires are
biological drives okay fine desires want
like all of that stuff is true and it
doesn't help anyone so here's here's the
answer okay so I I do think that desires
are external and values are internal but
values are what drive you to action but
both can drive you to action but values
generally speaking drive you towards
action in spite of suffering and desires
rarely do but you can desire something
and not enough and it can kind of drive
you to action anyway despite negativity
so what the yogi said is that desires
have their origins in the invidious in
the india's or the sense organs so if it
originally comes from a sense organ then
it's a desire so let's just think about
that what does that mean so let's think
about I want a hot dog
is that a desire or a value right why
like you can we all agree that it's a
desire right even if you don't accept it
so forget the answer that I gave you
guys just think about it for a second if
I'm walking down the street and I want a
hot dog like where what is that that's a
desire right like we don't think about
like when we think about like what are
your values like when you have a mission
statement from an NGO or a non-profit
eating a hot dogs is not gonna be on
there right like that's not the kind of
thing that goes into a mission stay
because values go into mission
statements not eating hot dogs if I want
a particular car where does that come
from
value or desire right okay so then we
get into this issue of materialism so
our Alma are all desires material and
I'm talking about hot dogs and cars and
that is not necessarily so does that
mean that all desires are material so
let's say that I'm walking down the
street and I see a guy my age and a girl
roughly my age holding hands sitting on
a park bench and then I say to myself I
want that
that's not material right so is that a
desire or a value ah ah see now we're
getting we're getting tricky right so
this is exactly why we're having this
conversation
so the yogi said if it comes from the in
various it's actually a desire so not
all desires have to be materialistic and
so if we think about something like
loneliness so like loneliness and a
feeling like a like if you're missing
companionship that doesn't come from a
particular sense organ right that
feeling comes from within India is ind
rry okay so the first thing to
understand is that if you're thinking
about your goals in life and the the
goals that you set for yourself where do
they originate do they originate and
things that you saw did you walk down
the street and see your friend who used
to weigh 400 pounds and now weighs 160
and then you say to yourself man I want
to lose weight
that doesn't sound materialistic it
doesn't sound bad it sounds like Noble
it sounds like a good goal right like
any doctor can get behind that
and yet what happens when you try to
pursue that goal right like what happens
you fail right why because it's a desire
so it's a good desire desires don't have
to be evil even if you look at someone
eating a salad you're like man I should
eat more salad still a desire so the key
is to find values because values drive
your internal like like that's where
motivation comes from its fulfillment of
values and the problem is that most
people don't even understand what their
values are so like if you're like I'm
just gonna you know I'm gonna have a
very poor sense of what twitch at is but
I'm just gonna think about the person
that I work with who like is the most
desperate so if you're 24 unemployed
living at home playing video games all
day that's the person that I started
streaming for by the way that person you
think about the goals that you set up
they're all based on desires
none of them are based on values that's
the problem you think about financial
independence wonderful you think about
moving out of the house also wonderful
you think about you know wanting this
and wanting that and not wanting this
and not wanting that looking this way
feeling this way not being overweight
eating healthy like all wonderful goals
all desires all desires because they're
based in the invidious so that's not
what naturally motivates behavior like
you can you can motivate behavior
through desires but if you really want
to move forward you need a Tarma because
the Dharma tells you that you can't
afford to fail because it's bigger than
you it's a duty it's a responsibility
and we see this because the cool thing
is when I talked to that 24 year old or
19 year old or 31 year old and we see
how far they're willing to go for a
friend it's amazing they're not willing
to do anything for themselves but if it
comes to a friend like if your friend is
sick and they need like nutritious
healthy food
then they'll do it because that's your
Dharma right helping a friend isn't the
harm that you can get behind that
doesn't have to do with a desire you
guys see that like it doesn't come from
the sense organs helping your friend is
not like you're not walking down the
street and you're like man that guy in
the car next to me he's carrying a bag
and that looks like chicken noodle soup
and he's carrying it for a friend of his
I should really do that right that's not
how that works that comes from within
that's a value so the biggest problem is
that the things that you're the things
that drive you forward our desires and
desires are not going to stand up that
once again like this is coming full
circle when I was when we were talking
about progress or growth you're thinking
about a positive thing right so you're
like I'm gonna eat a salad every day and
I'm gonna lose weight and I'm gonna be
healthy and that feels good like that's
progress that's growth that's what we
want but when you actually do it you're
not able to do it because it's actually
difficult to do and it hurts like every
bite of romaine lettuce like hurts you
right it hurts you deep within your
mouth because like that's what it's like
and it's not worth it
that's the basic problem desires are not
worth the suffering and that's why
everyone isn't a millionaire because
everyone wants to be a millionaire but
people are wait aren't willing to work
for it they're not willing to subject
themselves to the things that they need
to do in order to become a millionaire
and that too is because once again
gamers would rather waste time doing
nothing than waste time doing something
that may not work so you would rather
play video games for an entire year then
take a step forward to becoming a
millionaire because that may not work
out
and that's because it's based in a
desire so if you want to get away from
that you have to base it in a value
basing it in a value is the same thing
as finding a competing interest is the
same thing as finding your Dharma
because if we think about you know like
if I need a million dollars to like pay
for my kids cancer treatment like that's
a different thing you know which
American health care system aside so it
changes the way that you you act and it
changes the way that you think and it
changes the most important thing is it
changes daughter might changes your
tolerance for pain it allows you to
choose things that are uncomfortable and
suck when I want call for 24 hours like
that sucks but I do it and I do it
willingly because like I realize that
there were like people here that I have
to like take care of and if I don't take
care of them like no one's gonna take
care of them so it's gotta be me
and so that's what thought of us so the
issue is that you guys need to find your
Dharma because if you can find your
Dharma then everything else becomes side
quests like the problem is that like
like losing weight is not a main quest
it's a side quest and the problem is
that you treat it like a main quest like
all I'm doing in my life is losing
weight no man that's a side quest making
money side quest losing weight side
quest getting healthy side quest the
problem is like no one has a main quest
that's what you need you need the main
quest because in order to fulfill the
main quest you've got to lose weight you
got to make money like that's how it
works right like in a game you go and
you get this piece of gear the side
quest to get the piece of gear doesn't
actually that's not winning the game
it's just you need to beat this boss and
you need a piece of gear
so you need a main quest and that's what
anima is duty responsibility that's like
what a main quest is in an RPG right
that's not that's not like an analogy
that's like the Dharma of the
protagonist is the main quest that's how
it works and like you just think about
like what they do right like they they
withstand all kinds of pain and
suffering because it's like so you guys
have you like the ultimate main quest in
the ultimate Dharma is Frodo in the ring
Frodo in the ring you guys need to go to
Mordor and like drop the ring and it's
like it's painful and it sucks and it's
terrible and you're gonna be thirsty and
you're willing to do it because it's the
main quest because that's your
tournament that's like the Lord of the
Rings is a story about Dharma but the
problem yeah where does your Sam was
I don't think you guys realize this
you're looking at your Samwise
I am you're Samwise that's what I'm
doing I am samurais
I'm not Gandalf I'm Sam Weiss right
I'm here to help you
I'm helping you this is what I'm doing
I'm carrying your pack you're sitting
there whining about how you're hungry
and you want strawberries and stuff like
that and I'm keeping your spirits up and
inside I'm raging at you and want to
throttle e because you're such a whiny
little Hobbit but I mean yeah so I guess
I'm not the actual hero so maybe I'm not
the same wise but yeah so like I'm I'm
one of the members of the fellowship so
I'm helping you guys out but y'all have
to carry the ring like you've got to
carry it to Mordor I can't carry it to
Mordor for you so questions thoughts
I call ya I'm Gollum badly today
my precious hurts us okay
[Music]
okay let me just think for a second okay
so how to find her beautiful
okay so so this is a question that's
that's so now we get to the real
question right how do you find your
Dharma so the first thing is you knock
out things that are rooted in the in
there is so you like think about what
your goals are and you just knock out
like I feel like we should do this on
discord because this works better when I
can actually like interact with live
human beings and help you guys find your
Dharma
okay so like think about what your goals
are and think about whether they're
rooted in the India's so if they're
rooted in the India's they're not gonna
be your Dharma so the other way that I
think about it is like make a list of
things that you want and things that you
care about
and you'll be amazed right so that's
where I think it starts so the first
thing you have to do in terms of like
we're gonna have to stop in a few
minutes because we have to meditate so I
don't mean to leave you guys hanging
it's just the LS interview took way
longer so the first thing is to
understand what is not values and to
understand what is desires and knock
those off the plate that's actually half
the battle
and just ask yourself like what do you
actually care about what are the things
that you are would do for the sake like
what what are the things that you can do
and endure pain for those are going to
be your values
ah so now people are asking I don't care
about anything though
beautiful therein lies the problem
therein lies the problem right so you
are the person who is walking into my
office and saying I want to quit smoking
and then I ask you do you want to walk
your daughter down the aisle carrying an
oxygen tank and you say I don't have
kids and then I say okay do you wanna
and then I ask question after question
after question and you're like yeah
right so therein lies your problem if
you don't have a competing interest no
wonder you're not changing your life
so the question is how do you develop a
competing interest if you have nothing
that's worthwhile in life what do you do
about that how do you handle that
don't just get yourself a kid that's a
terrible idea so that's a longer
exploration but I think it comes from a
couple of places so it comes from
experience and it comes from study and
it comes from reflection so the first
thing that I would say is go out and do
something so a Daruma
is not just like the product of a
logical mind saga by is a product of
experience so you need to stop living in
your head and start living in the world
so go out and do something anything I
don't care what it is right ah so
someone says what if I'm socially
anxious exactly exactly you go and you
do things despite your social anxiety
this is exactly my point is that like
you have to do something it doesn't you
have to be with people just go out and
do something go do something if you're
an introvert go do something alone you
doesn't have to be with people what that
thing is I'm not sure that's what you've
got to figure out go out and take a walk
I don't know where you live like a lot
of people from Scandinavia apparently
it's cold in Boston too so taking a walk
is hard right it can even be like like
if there's someone that you know that's
like been having a rough time like text
them be like hey how are things going
like it can be anything do something for
yourself treat yourself like you would
treat your friend
so like cook yourself a healthy meal
like learn how to cook something so
right now your daughter Maya isn't
taking care of you if you have no other
time' and you're going nowhere in life
your Dharma is that you should take care
of yourself don't do it don't do it from
the I perspective do it from a
third-person perspective so understand
that you're a human being who deserves
to be like helped out and you should
give yourself a helping hand
yeah today was beautiful in
Massachusetts go and do something and
like take care of yourself and so
whatever that thing is is it cleaning
your room a little bit which we've
talked about room cleaning stream is it
I don't know go help an animal go
volunteer if you want to just do
something learn how to cook something
and make yourself something delicious
and healthy like make yourself something
delicious and healthy or meditate okay
so that's where we're gonna stop for
today I'm gonna go ahead and meditate I
know that in a sense like I haven't
given you guys any answers because I'm
just like sort of sad like this is how
to do it it's time and then you guys are
all asking okay well then how do we find
tottemo but I want you all to understand
that like learning what not to do and
learning how you work even if you don't
have all the answers yet is perfectly
fine so going forward now that you
understand the difference between
India's sense organs desires and values
and you understand the relationship of
Dharma now when you struggle to do
something and you don't meet your goals
at least you understand why so my whole
approach is that you understand how you
work don't come to me for answers don't
come to me to improve your life I can't
improve your life I can't do that I
can't improve anyone's life all I can
help you do is understand how your life
works I can help you understand how you
work I can be an owner's manual for you
that I can do what you guys do with that
that's up to you I'm solid myself of all
responsibility I can't help you I can
teach you how you work that's all I can
do and I can tell you understand what
what that you you know if you're living
a life of desires that's why you can't
move forward because the desires aren't
enough it's not enough so cut yourself a
break
and then look for Dharma this is the
other thing karma is something that is
sought so now you should start looking
for it you'll be amazed
you'll be able to find it if you look
you'll be able to find it you go out you
experience you'll be able to find it
really believe that and then we can go
it more into values desires in Parma
part 2 so there's like many parts to
Dharma so this is just the first lecture